Okay, so you are doing problem six the figure shows and kilogram stone address on a spring.
Spring is compressed and sent to meters by the stone.
Spring is a compressed, ten centimeters by the strong stone, but a, what does the spring constant and part B, if the stone is pushed down and additional thirty centimeters and released.
So, when initially, when the H, kg stone is being what happens is the spring is compressed by ten centimeters. Okay and they are asking what is the spring's constant? So let's do this problem.
The part a first.
So, we can apply, we can, or we can draw three body diagram for the, for the stone here. And so this is basically.
The mass or the weight acting down was actually, let me show it like yeah, so this is the wait, which is acting downwards. And here you have the spring.
This is the spring and once it is push down the compression, that's it compresses by this amount. That is eight centimeters.
Resting on the spring and it does it centimeters let's say initially the spring was here at the stage. At this point. When you put the mass, you put the mass, it compresses to this level. Okay.
So now the masses here at the new position eight centimeters down. So, we can write down the nutrients.
Of motion in this case, because there is a movement tell what take a moment. So we can, I don't f net is equal to mass times acceleration. Now stone is not accelerating. It. It there was a displacement, but it's not accelerating.
So, net force, we wanna write down equation for the net force. What force is going to be? There are two forces acting here. One is the wait itself.
And the other one is, if the compression is, you know, downwards, if this is the duration of the compression, the spring force will be acting upwards. Okay so you have a spring force, which is acting upwards.
So, we can write down in the equation. Okay. Considering what typically outwards us giving it the positive sign. So forth of spring minus the wait is equal to mass times. Acceleration.
Acceleration is because it's addressed. Do you have a mass with the stone and it displace a certain amount? So it's not accelerating etc.
So, the spring a formula for the spring is spring constant is minus K times X. so we can put it to minus K times X.
X here is being with us negative because according to assign convention, we set that displacement. Anything that is upward as positive.
So, minus K, times X, minus mass, masses, nine point eight. So, ten centimeters is a displacement and this leads to the spring constant seventy four.
Okay, to be is so this is we can easily find out the spring constant because we know the mass which compressed the spring by ten centimeters. So we know the force that compressed the spring.
So we can easily write down the Newton's second.
The net force equated to zero and that's how we get.
The mass times acceleration this, we can also use the equation of equilibrium. Basic. My fly is equal to zero. It's the same thing. Sick.
My fly is equal to zero sum of all the forces and the Y, direction must be zero. This is true. And the object is not accelerating, so it will give you the same result.
So, spring force, which is the positive direction minus the wait for the negative direction should be soon.
So, basically, the Newton's second law of motion, when massive activation is equal to zero some of all the net forces equal to zero. That is just equilibrium.
B, is that stone is pushed down an additional thirty centimeters and release so now the apply for the force, and an additional thirty centimeters it is compressed. Okay.
And then it is really so, when you compress this, what happens is some energy stored as an elastic potential energy in the spring.
And the question is, what is the elastic potential energy of the compress spring just before the release? So when you compress it, some energy is stored in it. Okay. It's just waiting to be released. Okay.
So they're asking, what is that energy? So, you know, the, the potential energy formula or the spring potential energy is equal.
I am so sorry, there's something broken into How's the maintenance here? And of course, the stock has to work.
Okay, so sorry.
So, potential energy, we have to find out the store elastic potential energy stored for the last two potential energy.
If you look at.
So the spring sorry why did that eight? This is not a centimeter says, Tencent. Okay. Okay. So the total displacement or the compression is first, it was compressed and centimeters.
Of course, some energy is already stored there and then thirty centimeters for the. So the total is forty centimeters. Okay. So, if it says the initial position of the string, this is the final position of the Sprint right?
So, we know that the change in the potential energy. What was the formula Delta you in? The elastic potential energy was equal to K.
Okay,
fine position square minus the initial position square so,
you know,
initial position we can take it as zero.
So, the finance position is, it will be negative because we are going down sign has to be negative.
But there is a square here, so basically the sign, whether it is negative or positive displacement, it doesn't matter.
This is why the change of the potential energy is sixty two point seven. This is a stored elastic potential energy in this spring.
Oh, but three is that.
What is the change in the gravitation potential energy? Yeah. What does it change in the gravitational potential energy of the store, or system on the stone moves from the release point with maximum so now we are here right?
We added forty centimetres down from initial position and now the spring is released.
So when it is released the elastic spring potential energy, that was too what the spring energy that stood in the spring it will get converted into potential energy.
So, they're asking what is a change in the gravitational engineers, do on our system when the stone moves from the release point to the maximum. Right? This is the release point as forty centimeters and to maximum height.
They're asking what what is the, what is that. So, what will it be? It's going to be the same, right?
It's going to be the same same energy that restored that was stored as elastic potential energy. The same as the gravitational potential energy.
If you want, you can simply give the the answer, or you can try down the equation. So the equation, in this case, we can write down the mechanical equation for the two stages. Okay so, let's see.
So, this is, let's say the initial position. Okay and this was, let's say the final position for the spring. So the spring was stretched until here.
And then when it gets released, we don't know where it goes. We will tentatively say that, let's say it covers the height. Each. Okay.
And this is a, why distance that the spring is compressed, so we can write down and this is now, this is a first final position in the system last final position. Okay.
So now we can write down the mechanical for the two systems. Okay. So the E mechanic, the elastic all the energy stored at this level in the spring should be the same as the energy stored in this level.
Yeah. At this level, there is nothing here. That was an issue position. There's no energy stored here. Decompressing. So, we store some energy at this, so we can write it like this, using the mechanicals equation.
We can write it like K, one plus one so, mechanical energy loss. Yesterday. We said that it is some of kinetic energy and potential energy. Maybe. Sometimes it does only kinetic energy. Sometimes it is only potential energy.
Sometimes you have some kind of taking some potential and then K, two, Les, you to let's call this as one and call this past two. Now, here, this spring is compressed. What is the velocity?
Velocity is you and here finally, and the spring goes at the height.
For a certain instant it was stopped so again, the velocity is zero so kinetic energy there's no rule of kinetic energy in in the, in these two stages in between yes, because, you know, it's it goes up, but not in between.
So though, yeah, so the stage one, the potential energy is though.
Spring Springs potential energy? Yeah. Half why squid and here this is equal to mgh. So.
We can use this equation here in this equation so basically, whatever it is, the energy that we found out here the same as the energy on the other side. So this value we already got is value.
We already go. So this is you, this value was sixty two point seven. The next part says that.
We canceled kinetic energy K one and.
A U, one is a spring energy and you two is gravitational potential energy. Okay. So yeah. Is, you know, the gravitational potential energy.
So sixty two point seven the next boxes find out the height. So we can use the same equation here. Six. We know that.
This is equal to mgh and we know what it is, you know, eight kilograms do you know, nine point eight one? So, from here, we can find out H.
Height so the height comes out to be eighty centimeters, so we compressed the spring forty centimeters down and then you release it, it covers a height because of the all this energy stored in it it covers double.
It goes to eighty centimeters high so forty centimeters. It comes up, that's the initial position. Remember and then forty eight goes even.
So this is basically some of the equation now, I would like to rather show some of the chess problems.
Yeah, more fondness for practice here. In fact, let me saw one more problem.
This involves friction so a horizontal force of magnitude forty one Newtons, which is a block of mass for kilograms across a floor. So let's Joe.
So we have a mass of four kilograms.
So, a horizontal forty one Newton's is applied, it pushes it across the floor. The coefficient of friction.
The box six moving so it does zero point six. How much what that means, you know, there is going to be a force affliction.
That is that is like this, how much work done how much work is done by that applied force on the block floor system.
When the blog slice or displacement of to meters across the field.
Do meters across the sure. So.
Now, we can simply find out they are asking that how much work is done by that applied force on the block floor system, and the block slice or displacement of two meters across. So, this is only the work done by the force.
So the work done by this force is simply forty one multiplied by four for all, you know, f. D off. Peter.
Does you go ahead. Okay. So this value if we checked forty one multiply by no. Sorry? Two.
What,
for the just discovered is okay,
so eighty two Jules is the work done,
but before that,
during the displacement,
the thermal energy off the block increases by four weeks.
Remember, there is a kind of a, there's a fiction here. So, what will happen and the box will move. Some terminal energy will also be released.
So this is the force is trying to is doing this much work force has done for it. So you apply forty one mutants. It moved to move to meters across the floor.
But remember this probably, it should have moved. It's more. But the problem is that you have fiction, so that is why instead of me, maybe if friction was not there, maybe it would move for meters.
But, no, there is some part that is lost. So, forty one neutrons when applied to this mass was only able to move it to a distance to meet us. Okay.
Now, during that displacement, the thermal energy of the block increases by forty two. So that means there's Fort that goes in the thermal energy terminology increases by forty two.
What is the increase in thermal energy of fluids?
So, we have to find out the increase in common energy of the flow.
So, we can write down down. Sorry we can write down formula.
For the works done by the thermal energy. Okay. So so it is the force. Okay.
Multiplied by basically is the same thing so this is the work done by the kinda by this kinetic energy kinetic friction thing. Okay. Now, the problem is, we don't know what is f, we don't know what is f. K.
but if you remember kinetic energy, the friction sorry? Kinetic force of friction at a formula, the formula was new K times and okay. Times normal reaction. We started this before.
Now, what is normal reaction?
The weight is acting downwards the normally, action of the body is going to be acting up, which so the normal reaction is equal to wait or it is equal to the is equal to empty.
You can use equal zero for this purpose. So the equation ultimately, if you want if you want to find out the work done.
Work done by this force. Okay. It is going to be basically minus.
Because the force of friction is in this direction. Okay. And the displacement is in this direction. So that's why I put a minus sign. We can use, you know, cause cause of vanity.
It is going to be f. K. is new K times Angie, and then cause of quantity because it is working in the opposite direction.
So this gives us an answer of minus forty seven. Julius. Now, this is a work done. What was the relationship between work done and the, and the energy it is a negative.
So the change in the thermal energy work done by force of friction is negative.
And what does the change in the thermal energy when positive.
Right, because this is they when they're asking for energy energy is, I mean, they're just asking for the magnitude of energy.
What is the increase in the permanent terminal energy before the movement was zero when you move the box it increased by forty seven. Okay.
But when you look at this, in terms of work done by the kinetic friction, kinetic friction here is doing the negative work.
So that's why with the, and you think of this as work, it is negative work, but when it is energy, it is an increase in the thermal energy. That is why it is positive.
She is that show.
Forty seven and what does it mean? It means that forty seven jewel of energy is actually based it.
Okay, you did some work, you apply forty one mutants, but the energy got wasted. Forty seven is a waste.
So, next is what does the increase in kinetic energy of the blocked and now we have to find out the increase in the kinetic energy.
Now, much of the work has been wasted, due to the forty seven jewels of the common energy.
So you did total work, which was equal to two, Jules and forty seven is basically the thermal energy that got twisted. So what is remaining remaining is thirty seven. Thirty five, right? Okay. You try doing that?
Work is eighty two minus forty seven. So, there's thirty, thirty five jewels that has gone into increasing the kinetic energy of the block.
It has not gone into increasing the potential of the block because the flow is a zoom to be horizontal. So the remaining, you did some work, just remember you apply to forty what do you want you to enforce on a fortune program? S, okay.
So the work that you are doing is eighty two July. That's the work done you're doing okay now what happens? Forty seven Jews goes into waste.
So, whatever is remaining only that it will help in, you know, increasing the kinetic energy of the book. Right? It, it is not available.
All the why you did the work, you did your effort, but it gets wasted to remainder whatever it is remainder is the energy. That is a rock is moving horizontally and motion. So that's what we're talking about kinetic energy.
So, eighty two minus forty seven Jews, total work done.
Was eighty two and then the work done by the kinetic fiction was forty seven. So, remainder is thirty five jewels. So the kinetic energy, the chain in the kinetic energy. That is thirty five. Thirty five.
Jules will go into the kinetic energy for the system. So.
So that's the thing if you have any of the work done kind of problems fiction is involved. Okay. So, let's say you have a, you know, this, and let's say you have a box and data's force of friction.
So, if new will be, let's say, also, given to you, and you have, I don't know, maybe you can have one or two forces or whatever.
Okay, so these two forces, if the displacement isn't this direction, what does the work done by these forces? By these two forces? That is the positive work done. But work done by the force of friction.
That is the negative work done. So this is negative work done and this is positive work done. So, what is the net to work done?
Positive minus the negative. Yeah, that is the net work done.
And the force you can find out before the work done, the negative work done f, you know, it is equal to new K times the normal reaction. So, if you know the weight.
You know, the wait, you know, the normal reaction.
You can find it so, in this equation to find a normal reaction, we can very easily apply sick. My fly is equal to zero.
Okay and this is this is important pay attention to this. So, in the previous equation.
The forty one was horizontal,
particularly we only had two forces weight and normal reaction,
which is why normal reaction will simply equal to wait,
but if you have other forces,
let's say you have a force f,
which is acting at some angle.
So what is Sigma is equal to zero this will be equal to f, sign of data. Last the normal reaction minus the weight is equal to you. So from here, you can find out normal reaction like this.
This is very important. Okay you have to plastic. My fly is equal to zero to find out or subjection. You've done this. This is just how to find the source of friction.
You've done these problems in the friction in the fiction chapter just supply Sigma Y, is equal to zero or Sigma effects. Sorry.
Yeah, just apply Sigma Y, is equal to zero to find out normal reaction.
Normal reaction might multiplied by this kinetic friction that will kinda coefficient will give you the horizontal or suffrage right?
So, we are done with these problems I wanna.
Do maybe some problem related to trust.
So, let me do this problem.
We have.
Going to two method of sections and this is.
Eighteen hundred all the forces are in eighteen and this is.
Images.
Says majors and will typically.
One point five meters one point five meters and one point. Five meters. Okay so you have to let's say this is a.
His be see the.
This is E. S.
That you have to find out.
So you have to find out the forces of f. G. GC and CV. So f. G. is this member g. is this member.
Dc is this member and C. B. is this member. Okay so you can pass the section to in method section. You can pass a section where you have three unknowns.
Yeah, so we can cut a section in this way.
Section doesn't have to be always horizontal or vertical. It's can be in client. Also we can show the unknown forces. Let's see. Let me just maybe put them here.
So here say we have one for here.
You can show it extension or compression that's up to you. And then, let's say you have one force here in the of the section and we have one for.
So this sounds good. We can find out easily this angle. This angle is twenty six point. Nine, seven.
And this says ninety so how much is the second remaining? Anyone calculate quickly is twenty six point nine seven.
So, sixty three point one three, this one, this one sangard sixty three point one.
Yeah, sixty three one three.
This is the Senate, so this forces.
This forces.
And this forces f. C. so to do problems like these, you can use either.
Sigma effects is equal to zero signifies equal Sigma zero or you can use two moment equations and one four equation. So let's use, maybe first a moment equation. So, I want to take a moment to.
Yeah, at this point so when I take sick my is equal to zero.
Stay counterclockwise as positive,
so both this force and this force GC and GF,
they are passing through the point sheet so they will not produce any movements at the moment will be minus fcb.
Okay. Now, how much is this distance? This distances? Three meters, so mine is times three plus nine hundred times.
Six last eighteen hundred times. Three is equal to zero.
So now, fcb is equal to three point six zero kid on intent easily. Very easily. We found out this force.
Going for the after this.
Can we take moment? Let's take moment this point if we take moment at C.
so is passing through this point and is passing through this point basically, what's happening is that we are considering.
Just this section. Okay, so this is the we cut it here like this.
That's the section like this, we got the section like this. So basically, this is a section that we are considering. Okay so we have f. G. C. we have f. G. F. MGC and we have this force.
We are only considering the upper site. We are not considering down which we're analyzing from the top. Now Sigma MC is equal to zero.
So, if she takes it back, MC is equal to zero counterclockwise as positive. So, now we take moment tail. So what do we get? We get nine hundred.
Time six plus eighteen hundred.
Eighteen eighteen hundred times. Three minus f. F. G. sign off twenty six point five seven.
So basically, this is either you can you sign off forty six point five, seven or if you look at this, if you basically just look at here.
We are taking moment at this point. See, this angle a sixty three, this force is making two components. One is here and one is vertical. Okay. And this angle is we know that this is twenty six points.
So, either we use a cause of this or sign off this. Okay so this is this is going to be.
F. G. surely.
So, taking moment, the sign component is not producing and the cost component just producing or sorry the sign off sixty three point one three.
So the sign multiplied by three take my I'm C is equal to zero. F. G.
Yeah, it's fine. So the White ticker moment is oh, and it does clockwise so it does negative times three.
Okay is equal to zero. Oh, okay. So, from here, can anyone calculate? What does FMC?
I think it should be equal to four point zero, two, you know, new to anyone calculated.
Oh, when you are taking moments, so for FMC, there are two ways you can take a moment. Okay so, basically it's the forces here.
We'll get to so we are the force we are, if you consider the force here and the components at this point. Okay here are the two components, then this component is passing through this point.
So, it is not the cost component is not producing any moment. Assigned component is producing moments, sign of sixty, three point, one, three and multiply by this as the moment. Distance.
The other option is, you know, that this for the way it is being done the solution. And you, you can check it in your notes. So, this force is, I mean, you can slide it to it's the same line of action.
This is f so here, it has two components.
The vertical component is passing through this point. C. so it is not producing any moment, but now the horizontal is producing. So this will be cause of sixty three point one three into six. So both are okay.
Depends. Where are you considering the for? So, FMC can also be written this the moment can also be cause of sixty three point one, three, but then.
Multiplied by six I think it is a mistake.
Can you check again? Yeah, you're getting a Newton's first of all. You have to do it by one thousand, but in any case, this is a large number. We've made some mistakes nine hundred times six.
That's eighteen hundred times. Three.
Okay, so sign off sixty three point. One three.
This into three, there's two point six, seven, six.
Nine hundred I'm six.
Eighteen hundred times three.
Divide it by nine hundred,
six team
ten,
seven.
Such as no, it is for.
I got it just check it again.
Nine hundred times. Six is fifty four hundred. That's eighteen hundred times. Three.
Is equal to ten thousand eight hundred. Okay. Then sign off sixty three point. One three is pointing to three two point six. So ten thousand eight hundred divided by answer?
Yeah, four zero to four point. Zero three. I'm getting.
So, please check your calculation. Okay.
So, is this point clear how you, you can take moments? See, you were taking moment at this point, you're taking momentum.
Alright, so this force it has two components. One is here one is here.
So if you consider the force here, then the vertical component is producing moment and horizontal is not or you can slide this force here. Now, the vertical is not producing any woman.
It is passing it is horizontal, which is producing.
So, you can take a moment in both in both ways.
So this is it anything else do you want me to, you know.
Discuss or do you have, like ten minutes.
Before I give you the quiz
this for the trust.
Yeah. In the final example, we have a question where we can use either the section or method of a joint or like, it's two questions we have to use.
No, you will be asked to solve a particular particular method.
If nothing is mentioned, you can choose whatever you want to use.
Okay, so it's up to us it's up to you. Yes, but suddenly you may be asked to, you know, solve it by a certain method. Then you have to do it by.
Okay, another question miss. Now for me, I don't know about the other for me when the, when for the final exam just saw your notice on mobile. Yeah.
Even if I set my laptop like ten feet. So, you will not be able to see it because it's like a tablet kind of. So it won't be sitting upright.
So you'll be able to see everything from my side. But I think it will still like, you know, leave some stuff like, under.
You have enough, right? It's not it's not tablet. It's a laptop, but just a second.
Oh, so.
I don't know if you can see it. I can see it so no matter how far apart that setup will, you know can you not put it at the distance? Yeah. Okay.
No, probably, it will be like, so, let's say it's like this, but you'll still be able, you know, to like, there's a space left downward.
I'm not sure how example you can put it like this. This is what I mean, you can put it like this and you can do your work like this. Right? This is what they want. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So what I've done is that.
I have just what just I'll just just sit somewhere where you can put your device at a certain distance, you know, it can be on your sofa and where your television is. You put your stuff that yeah. Okay. I get.
You can do it. You can do that. It doesn't have to be a desk anything.
Yeah, I understand, but, like, I miss the about that, you know, I I mean, about the logistics of it, because, like, sometimes it's just hard to set it like a product because it's a tablet. What? I yeah, yeah. Okay.
And if you have to see the the laptop, that's a good question. Yeah. To MS. does it matter since the audio is on since no one's going to turn off the audio. Yeah. I mean, you can still see us.
So, like, if there's any suspicious moves, you can possibly see us, but, like, you can hear us as well. So, does it matter okay. Maybe you can just, you know, make it close enough.
So that you can see, let's see. Even when I put the laptop here, you can still see me, right? Yeah. And I can also see my screen so don't too far away. Okay.
But last, you know, some, some of you were here like this, this is not what the I don't wanna see see this. I, I just wanna see this. Okay. Yeah. While you are working. So I can see, I can see you.
I just you, I, I, I just wanna see, you can also see the screen.
I can easily read everything that's on the screen and you keep the audio open so, and the video will be open. So, I think we'll be yeah, I mean, these are the instructions that we've been the ministry has asked us to follow.
And by the way, in the other universities, I know that they are locking the browsers.
And even for the lectures, I know they are the students have to keep their videos open at all times, using the lectures even in the lectures. Yes.
But can they force students to do that? Why not? These are online online classes, right? I mean, physically, if I can see you so why can't I see.
Yeah, I understand this here, which is why, which is, you know.
That makes sense. So.
Anyway, so any other questions you want to ask, okay important thing on your souls the page there is an evaluation or evaluation.
And you please do the valuation maybe you can do is now not done it already.
So, if you go there, apparently there is a link there can you can do the evaluation.
For one or two years.
Okay,
I will message you if I
the course evaluation.
Sent it by mail, so you received the email then like, this, this was sent on, like, two days ago notch the old one not the one month ago. Are you sure.
Two days ago, did you receive any email asking for course, and the instructor evaluation for the scores for every course you have to do it.
No, I, I can't send it. It's not something that that's that I do.
So,
university administration,
it should be a link at the bottom of the page.
Oh, it's not feedback, sir we.
I I don't know what they're calling it, but two days ago, I think two days or yesterday, they sent an email, the evaluation and the instructor evaluation. You will be creating me.
And, of course, on a different things that how was this, how was she prepared how what she prepared was she good then what she bad and, you know, rate me one to ten or one to five whatever.
The thing is, I, I, I, I don't actually know what it looks like. I just know some of the questions I might punch. What am I giving assessing you correctly? Am I harsh in breathing?
Am I good in creating and, you know, all these things and about the course so how is, of course, is a core stuff is of course, like this is, of course, like that is, did it help you, what were your expectation? So, you know, these kind of rating stuff.
Anyway, I sent them an email, I told them the students have, the students can't see the link. So apparently they had they're saying that the link has been sent to your soul's email.
Evaluation link was sent to student soul's email so not the not your personal email the.
Check the, and also, I think on the page at the bottom, the link is probably visible. So.
Okay, anyway so now the quiz please, you can start doing the quiz.
I would stop recording now.